==== BEGIN ENTRY ====
TITLE: Meryl Streep | Biography, Movies, Oscars, & Facts
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Meryl-Streep
SNIPPET: Meryl Streep is an American film actress known for her masterly technique, expertise with dialects, and subtly expressive face.
CONTENT:
Meryl Streep Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. What was Meryl Streep's first film? The first feature film in which Meryl Streep appeared was Julia in 1977. When did Meryl Streep win both a Golden Globe Award and an Oscar? Meryl Streep won a Golden Globe Award and her third Oscar for the film The Iron Lady (2011). She performed the role of Margaret Thatcher, a portrait of the former British prime minister. Whom did Meryl Streep portray in the film A Cry in the Dark? Meryl Streep played the role of Lindy Chamberlain in the film A Cry in the Dark (1988). Lindy Chamberlain was the real-life Australian mother accused of having murdered her baby daughter, although she claimed that the child was carried off by a dingo. When was Meryl Streep awarded the Commander in the Order of Arts and Letters? Meryl Streep was awarded Commander in the Order of Arts and Letters (the highest cultural award presented by the French government) in 2002. When did Meryl Streep win the Cecil B. DeMille Award? In 2017 Meryl Streep was given the Cecil B. DeMille Award (a Golden Globe for lifetime achievement). News • Meryl Streep (born June 22, 1949, Summit, New Jersey, U.S.) is an American film actress known for her masterly technique, expertise with dialects, and subtly expressive face. She has received an unprecedented 21 Academy Award nominations, and she won for her performances in Kramer vs. Kramer (1979), Sophie’s Choice (1982), and The Iron Lady (2011). Early life Streep started voice training at age 12 and took up acting in high school. In 1971 she graduated from Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York, with a degree in drama and costume design. After working in summer stock theater, Streep studied drama at Yale University, where she earned a master of fine arts degree in 1975. She then moved to New York City to begin a professional career as an actress. Stardom: The Deer Hunter, Sophie’s Choice, and Silkwood Streep made her Broadway debut in 1975 with Trelawny of the “Wells.” Two years later she appeared in her first feature film, Julia (1977), but it was her performance in The Deer Hunter (1978) that earned Streep widespread recognition. Though her role was relatively small, she displayed a quiet softness that contrasted sharply with the bravado of the male characters and deepened the film’s testament to the devastating effects of the Vietnam War on young Americans. That same year she starred in the television miniseries Holocaust, for which she won an Emmy Award. Over the next 10 years, Streep confirmed her reputation as one of Hollywood’s finest dramatic actresses. Her performances in Kramer vs. Kramer (1979)—as a mother who leaves her young son and then fights to regain his custody—and Sophie’s Choice (1982)—as a Polish survivor of a Nazi concentration camp—earned her Academy Awards for supporting actress and leading actress, respectively. She further demonstrated her range and her gifts for rendering complex emotional states and seamless characterization in such roles as a modern-day actress portraying a Victorian woman of mystery in The French Lieutenant’s Woman (1981), a factory-worker-turned-activist in Silkwood (1983), and the aristocratic Danish author Isak Dinesen in Out of Africa (1985). She won the Cannes film festival and New York Film Critics’ Circle awards for best actress for her moving performance in A Cry in the Dark (1988) as Lindy Chamberlain, the real-life Australian mother accused of having murdered her baby daughter although she claimed that the child was carried off by a dingo. A devil, Julia Child, and Margaret Thatcher By the late 1980s Streep’s reputation as a brilliant technical actress came to be a burden. Her name was typically associated with a serious, often depressing sort of film, and some critics complained that her performances lacked compassion. As a result, Streep tried to change her popular image by appearing in a handful of comedies, including Postcards from the Edge (1990) and Death Becomes Her (1992), and in the action-adventure film The River Wild (1994). For the most part, these films were not well received, and Streep returned to dramatic films that required more technical skill and less personal charisma. She gave memorable performances in The Bridges of Madison County (1995), Marvin’s Room (1996), One True Thing (1998), and The Hours (2002). In 2003 Streep received an unprecedented 13th Academy Award nomination—for best supporting actress in Adaptation (2002); Katharine Hepburn originally held the record with 12 nominations. That same year she played Hannah Pitt and Ethel Rosenberg in the HBO miniseries Angels in America, which also starred Emma Thompson and Al Pacino; she won an Emmy for her performance. Streep earned another Oscar nomination (for best actress) for her portrayal of an overbearing fashion magazine editor in The Devil Wears Prada (2006). In 2008 she played Donna, a middle-aged woman reunited with three of her former lovers, in the musical Mamma Mia! and later that year starred with Philip Seymour Hoffman in Doubt, about a nun who suspects a priest of having inappropriate relationships with children at a Catholic school; her performance in the latter film earned Streep another Academy Award nomination. She also garnered critical acclaim for her portrayal of famed American chef Julia Child in Julie & Julia (2009), a role for which she received a Golden Globe Award and her 16th Oscar nomination. Streep later provided the voice of Mrs. Fox in the animated Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009), a film adaptation of Roald Dahl’s children’s book, and starred with Alec Baldwin and Steve Martin in It’s Complicated (2009), a comedy about a divorced woman having an affair with her remarried ex-husband. She then stepped into the role of Margaret Thatcher in The Iron Lady (2011), a portrait of the former British prime minister. For her performance, Streep earned her eighth Golden Globe Award and third Oscar. In the lighthearted Hope Springs (2012), she and Tommy Lee Jones starred as a couple trying to save their stagnant marriage. She next evinced a razor-tongued matriarch whose husband has committed suicide in August: Osage County (2013), adapted from Tracy Letts’s play; for her performance, Streep earned her 18th Oscar nomination. Later films and television work In 2014 Streep appeared as the dispassionate leader of an ostensibly utopian community in The Giver, based on the novel for young readers by Lois Lowry; as a minister’s wife who cares for mentally ill women in the western The Homesman; and as a vengeful witch in the film adaptation of Stephen Sondheim’s musical Into the Woods. She was nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actress for the latter role. Streep then slipped into the role of a feckless (and unsuccessful) rock-and-roll singer who attempts to reconcile with her family in Ricki and the Flash (2015). After depicting woman-suffrage pioneer Emmeline Pankhurst in Suffragette (2015), Streep delivered an ebullient and sympathetic performance in the title role of Florence Foster Jenkins (2016), about the tragicomic but ultimately inspiring efforts of a syphilitic society matron to establish an opera career. For her work in the film, Streep received her 20th Oscar nomination. Streep next starred in The Post, portraying Katharine Graham, owner of The Washington Post. The drama, directed by Steven Spielberg, chronicles the newspaper’s publication of the Pentagon Papers. For her performance, Streep was nominated for another Academy Award. She then reprised her role as Donna in Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again and played a disorderly cousin to the eponymous character in Mary Poppins Returns (both 2018). In 2019 Streep took a turn on television, joining the critically acclaimed cast of the HBO series Big Little Lies for its second season. That same year she starred in The Laundromat, Steven Soderbergh’s farce about the Panama Papers scandal, and portrayed Aunt March in Little Women, an adaptation of Louisa May Alcott’s beloved classic. Her films from 2020 included The Prom, a musical in which a theater troupe tries to help a gay teenager, and Soderbergh’s Let Them All Talk, about an award-winning author who reunites with several old friends during a cruise. Streep next played a narcissistic U.S. president in Don’t Look Up (2021), a dramedy about an impending comet strike that will destroy Earth. In 2023 she returned to TV for one episode of the anthology series Extrapolations, a meditation on climate change, and six episodes of the popular crime comedy Only Murders in the Building. Other awards and honors In addition to receiving numerous acting awards, Streep was made Commander in the Order of Arts and Letters (the highest cultural award presented by the French government) in 2002. In 2010 she was elected an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Streep has also been given a National Medal of Arts (2010), a Kennedy Center Honor (2011), the Presidential Medal of Freedom (the highest civilian honor in the U.S.; 2014), and the Cecil B. DeMille Award (a Golden Globe for lifetime achievement; 2017).
==== END ENTRY ====

==== BEGIN ENTRY ====
TITLE: Meryl Streep
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meryl_Streep
SNIPPET: Mary Louise "Meryl" Streep (born June 22, 1949) is an American actress. Known for her versatility and adept accent work, she has been described as "the best ...
CONTENT:
Contents Meryl Streep Mary Louise "Meryl" Streep (born June 22, 1949) is an American actress. Known for her versatility and adept accent work, she has been described as "the best actress of her generation".[1][2] She has received numerous accolades throughout her career spanning over four decades, including a record 21 Academy Award nominations, winning three,[3] and a record 34 Golden Globe Award nominations, winning eight.[4] Streep made her stage debut in 1975 in Trelawny of the Wells, and the following year she received a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Play for a double-bill production of 27 Wagons Full of Cotton and A Memory of Two Mondays. She made her feature film debut in Julia (1977) and received her first Oscar nomination for The Deer Hunter (1978). She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for playing a troubled wife in Kramer vs. Kramer (1979), followed by the Academy Award for Best Actress for starring as a Holocaust survivor in Sophie's Choice (1982). She continued to gain awards and critical acclaim for her film work throughout the 1980s and 1990s. Commercial success varied, with Out of Africa (1985), Death Becomes Her (1992), and The Bridges of Madison County (1995) earning the most money during that period. Streep reclaimed her stardom in the ensuing decades with leading roles in The Devil Wears Prada (2006), Doubt, Mamma Mia! (both 2008), Julie & Julia, It's Complicated (both 2009), and Into the Woods (2014). She won her third Oscar for her portrayal of Margaret Thatcher in The Iron Lady (2011). For her work on television, she won three Primetime Emmy Awards for her roles in the miniseries Holocaust (1978) and Angels in America (2003), as well as the narration in the documentary series Five Came Back (2017). Her other television work include the drama series Big Little Lies (2019) and the comedy-mystery series Only Murders in the Building (2023). Streep has been the recipient of many honorary awards, including the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2004, a Gala Tribute from the Film Society of Lincoln Center in 2008, and the Kennedy Center Honor in 2011. President Barack Obama awarded her the National Medal of Arts in 2010 and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2014.[5] In 2003, the French government made her a Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters.[6] She was awarded the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2017.[7] Early life and education Mary Louise Streep was born on June 22, 1949, in Summit, New Jersey[8] to artist Mary Wilkinson Streep and pharmaceutical executive Harry William Streep Jr.[9] She has two younger brothers, Harry William Streep III and Dana David Streep, both actors.[10] Her father was of German and Swiss descent; his lineage traced back to Loffenau, from where Streep's great-great-grandfather, Gottfried Streeb, immigrated to the United States and where one of her ancestors served as mayor (the surname was later changed to "Streep").[11] Another line of her father's family was from Giswil. Her mother had English, German, and Irish ancestry.[11] Some of Streep's maternal ancestors lived in Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, and were descended from 17th-century English immigrants.[12][13][14] Her maternal great-great-grandparents, Manus McFadden and Grace Strain, were natives of the Horn Head district of Dunfanaghy in Ireland.[13][15][16] Streep's mother, whom she has compared in both appearance and manner to Dame Judi Dench,[17] strongly encouraged her daughter and instilled confidence in her from a very young age.[18] Streep said, "She was a mentor because she said to me, 'Meryl, you're capable. You're so great.' She was saying, 'You can do whatever you put your mind to. If you're lazy, you're not going to get it done. But if you put your mind to it, you can do anything.' And I believed her." Although she was naturally more introverted than her mother, when she later needed an injection of confidence in adulthood, she would consult her mother at times for advice.[18] Streep was raised as a Presbyterian[19] in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, and attended Cedar Hill Elementary School and the Oak Street School, which was a junior high school at that time. In her junior high debut, she starred as Louise Heller in the play The Family Upstairs.[20] In 1963, the family moved to Bernardsville, New Jersey, where she attended Bernards High School.[21] Author Karina Longworth described her as a "gawky kid with glasses and frizzy hair", yet noted that she liked to show off in front of the camera in family home movies from a young age.[22] At age 12, Streep was selected to sing at a school recital, leading to her having opera lessons from Estelle Liebling. Despite her talent, she later remarked, "I was singing something I didn't feel and understand. That was an important lesson—not to do that. To find the thing that I could feel through."[22] She quit after four years. Streep had many Catholic school friends, and regularly attended Mass.[23] She was a high school cheerleader for the Bernards High School Mountaineers. She was also chosen as the homecoming queen her senior year.[24] Although Streep appeared in numerous school plays during her high school years, she was uninterested in serious theater until acting in the play Miss Julie at Vassar College in 1969, in which she gained attention across the campus.[25] Vassar drama professor Clinton J. Atkinson noted, "I don't think anyone ever taught Meryl acting. She really taught herself."[25] Streep demonstrated an early ability to mimic accents and to quickly memorize her lines. She received her BA in drama[26] cum laude in 1971, before applying for an MFA from the Yale School of Drama. At Yale, she supplemented her course fees by working as a waitress and typist, and appeared in over a dozen stage productions per year; at one point, she became overworked and developed ulcers, so she contemplated quitting acting and switching to study law.[25] Streep played a variety of roles on stage,[27] from Helena in A Midsummer Night's Dream to an 80-year-old woman in a wheelchair in a comedy written by then-unknown playwrights Christopher Durang and Albert Innaurato.[28][29] She was a student of choreographer Carmen de Lavallade, whom she introduced at the 2017 Kennedy Center Honors.[30] Another of her teachers was Robert Lewis, a co-founder of the Actors Studio. Streep disapproved of some of the acting exercises she was asked to do, remarking that one professor taught the emotional recall technique by delving into personal lives in a way she found "obnoxious".[31][32] She received her MFA in drama from Yale in 1975.[33][34] She also enrolled as a visiting student at Dartmouth College in 1970, and received an honorary Doctor of Arts degree from the college in 1981.[34] Career 1970s: Early work and breakthrough One of Streep's first professional jobs in 1975 was at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center's National Playwrights Conference, during which she acted in five plays over six weeks. She moved to New York City in 1975, and was cast by Joseph Papp in a production of Trelawny of the Wells at the Vivian Beaumont Theater, opposite Mandy Patinkin and John Lithgow.[31] She went on to appear in five more roles in her first year in New York, including in Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival productions of Henry V, The Taming of the Shrew with Raul Julia, and Measure for Measure opposite Sam Waterston and John Cazale.[35] She entered into a relationship with Cazale at this time, and resided with him until his death three years later.[31] She starred in the musical Happy End on Broadway, and won an Obie for her performance in the off-Broadway play Alice at the Palace.[36] Although Streep had not aspired to become a film actor, Robert De Niro's performance in Taxi Driver (1976) had a profound impact on her; she said to herself, 'That's the kind of actor I want to be when I grow up.'[31] Streep began auditioning for film roles, and underwent an unsuccessful audition for the lead role in Dino De Laurentiis's remake of the action adventure King Kong which was released in 1976. De Laurentiis, referring to Streep as she stood before him, said in Italian to his son: "This is so ugly. Why did you bring me this?"[22] Unknown to Laurentiis, Streep understood Italian, and she remarked, "I'm very sorry that I'm not as beautiful as I should be, but, you know – this is it. This is what you get."[25] She continued to work on Broadway, appearing in the 1976 double bill of Tennessee Williams' 27 Wagons Full of Cotton and Arthur Miller's A Memory of Two Mondays. She received a Tony Award nomination for Best Featured Actress in a Play.[37] Streep's other Broadway credits include Anton Chekhov's The Cherry Orchard and the Bertolt Brecht-Kurt Weill musical Happy End, in which she had originally appeared off-Broadway at the Chelsea Theater Center. She received Drama Desk Award nominations for both productions.[38] Streep's first feature film role came opposite Jane Fonda in the 1977 film Julia, in which she had a small role during a flashback sequence. Most of her scenes were edited out, but the brief time on screen horrified the actress, "I had a bad wig and they took the words from the scene I shot with Jane and put them in my mouth in a different scene. I thought, I've made a terrible mistake, no more movies. I hate this business."[31] However, Streep stated in 2015 that Fonda had a lasting influence on her as an actress, and credited her with opening "probably more doors than I probably even know about".[18] Robert De Niro, who had spotted Streep in her stage production of The Cherry Orchard, suggested that she play the role of his girlfriend in the war film The Deer Hunter (1978).[39] Cazale, who had been diagnosed with lung cancer,[40] was also cast in the film, and Streep took on the role of a "vague, stock girlfriend" to remain with Cazale for the duration of filming.[41][42][43] Longworth notes that Streep, "Made a case for female empowerment by playing a woman to whom empowerment was a foreign concept–a normal lady from an average American small town, for whom subservience was the only thing she knew".[44] Pauline Kael, who later became a strong critic of Streep, remarked that she was a "real beauty" who brought much freshness to the film with her performance.[45] The film's success exposed Streep to a wider audience and earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress.[46] In the 1978 miniseries Holocaust, Streep played the leading role of a German woman married to a Jewish artist played by James Woods in Nazi era Germany. She found the material to be "unrelentingly noble" and professed to have taken on the role for financial gain.[47] Streep travelled to Germany and Austria for filming while Cazale remained in New York. Upon her return, Streep found that Cazale's illness had progressed, and she nursed him until his death on March 12, 1978.[48][43] With an estimated audience of 109 million, Holocaust brought a wider degree of public recognition to Streep, who found herself "on the verge of national visibility". She won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Miniseries or a Movie for her performance.[49] Despite the awards success, Streep was still not enthusiastic towards her film career and preferred acting on stage.[50] She played the supporting role of Leilah in Wendy Wasserstein's Uncommon Women and Others in a May 1978 "Theater in America" television production for PBS's Great Performances.[51] She replaced Glenn Close, who played the role in the Off-Broadway production at the Phoenix Theatre.[52] Hoping to divert herself from the grief of Cazale's death, Streep accepted a role in The Seduction of Joe Tynan (1979) as the chirpy love interest of Alan Alda, later commenting that she played it on "automatic pilot". She performed the role of Katherine in The Taming of the Shrew for Shakespeare in the Park. That same year she played a supporting role as the former girlfriend turned lesbian in Manhattan (1979) for Woody Allen. Streep later said that Allen did not provide her with a complete script, giving her only the six pages of her own scenes,[53] and did not permit her to improvise a word of her dialogue.[54] Vincent Canby of The New York Times described her performance as being "beautifully played".[55] In the drama Kramer vs. Kramer, Streep was cast opposite Dustin Hoffman as an unhappily married woman who abandons her husband and child. Streep thought that the script portrayed the female character as "too evil" and insisted that it was not representative of real women who faced marriage breakdown and child custody battles. The makers agreed with her, and the script was revised.[56] In preparing for the part, Streep spoke to her own mother about her life as a wife with a career,[57] and frequented the Upper East Side neighborhood in which the film was set, watching the interactions between parents and children.[56] The director Robert Benton allowed Streep to write her own dialogue in two key scenes, despite some objection from Hoffman, who "hated her guts" at first.[58][a] Hoffman and producer Stanley R. Jaffe later spoke of Streep's tirelessness, with Hoffman commenting: "She's extraordinarily hard-working, to the extent that she's obsessive. I think that she thinks about nothing else, but what she's doing."[59] The film was controversial among feminists, but it was a role which film critic Stephen Farber believed displayed Streep's "own emotional intensity", writing that she was one of the "rare performers who can imbue the most routine moments with a hint of mystery".[60] For the film, Streep won both the Golden Globe Award and the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, which she famously left in the ladies' room after giving her speech.[61][62] She received awards from the Los Angeles Film Critics Association,[63] National Board of Review and National Society of Film Critics for her collective work in her three film releases of 1979.[64][65] Both The Deer Hunter and Kramer vs. Kramer were major commercial successes and were consecutive winners of the Academy Award for Best Picture.[66][67] 1980s: Rise to prominence In 1979, Streep began workshopping Alice in Concert, a musical version of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, with writer and composer Elizabeth Swados and director Joseph Papp; the show was put on at New York's Public Theater from December 1980. Frank Rich of The New York Times referred to Streep as the production's "one wonder", but questioned why she devoted so much energy to it.[50] By 1980, Streep had progressed to leading roles in films. She was featured on the cover of Newsweek magazine with the headline "A Star for the 80s"; Jack Kroll commented, "There's a sense of mystery in her acting; she doesn't simply imitate (although she's a great mimic in private). She transmits a sense of danger, a primal unease lying just below the surface of normal behavior".[68] Streep denounced her fervent media coverage at the time as "excessive hype".[68] The story within a story drama The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981) was Streep's first leading role. The film paired Streep with Jeremy Irons as contemporary actors, telling their modern story, as well as the Victorian era drama they were performing. Streep developed an English accent for the part, but considered herself a misfit for the role: "I couldn't help wishing that I was more beautiful".[69][68][b] A New York magazine article commented that, while many female stars of the past had cultivated a singular identity in their films, Streep was a "chameleon", willing to play any type of role.[71] Streep was awarded a BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role for her work.[72] The following year, she re-united with Robert Benton for the psychological thriller, Still of the Night (1982), co-starring Roy Scheider and Jessica Tandy. Vincent Canby, writing for The New York Times, noted that the film was an homage to the works of Alfred Hitchcock, but that one of its main weaknesses was a lack of chemistry between Streep and Scheider, concluding that Streep "is stunning, but she's not on screen anywhere near long enough".[73] Greater success came later in the year when Streep starred in the drama Sophie's Choice (also 1982), portraying a Polish survivor of Auschwitz caught in a love triangle between a young naïve writer (Peter MacNicol) and a Jewish intellectual (Kevin Kline). Streep's emotional dramatic performance and her apparent mastery of a Polish accent drew praise.[74] William Styron wrote the novel with Ursula Andress in mind for the role of Sophie, but Streep was determined to get the role.[75] Streep filmed the "choice" scene in one take and refused to do it again, finding it extremely painful and emotionally exhausting.[76] That scene, in which Streep is ordered by an SS guard at Auschwitz to choose which of her two children would be gassed and which would proceed to the labor camp, is her most famous scene, according to Emma Brockes of The Guardian who wrote in 2006: "It's classic Streep, the kind of scene that makes your scalp tighten, but defter in a way is her handling of smaller, harder-to-grasp emotions".[17] Among several acting awards, Streep won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance,[77] and her characterization was voted the third greatest movie performance of all time by Premiere magazine.[78] Roger Ebert said of her delivery, "Streep plays the Brooklyn scenes with an enchanting Polish-American accent (she has the first accent I've ever wanted to hug), and she plays the flashbacks in subtitled German and Polish. There is hardly an emotion that Streep doesn't touch in this movie, and yet we're never aware of her straining. This is one of the most astonishing and yet one of the most unaffected and natural performances I can imagine".[79] Pauline Kael, on the contrary, called the film an "infuriatingly bad movie", and thought that Streep "decorporealizes" herself, which she believed explained why her movie heroines "don't seem to be full characters, and why there are no incidental joys to be had from watching her".[80] In 1983, Streep played her first non-fictional character, the nuclear whistleblower and labor union activist Karen Silkwood, who died in a suspicious car accident while investigating alleged wrongdoing at the Kerr-McGee plutonium plant, in Mike Nichols' biographical film Silkwood. Streep felt a personal connection to Silkwood,[81] and in preparation, she met with people close to the woman, and in doing so realized that each person saw a different aspect of her personality.[82] She said, "I didn't try to turn myself into Karen. I just tried to look at what she did. I put together every piece of information I could find about her ... What I finally did was look at the events in her life, and try to understand her from the inside".[82] Jack Kroll of Newsweek considered Streep's characterization to have been "brilliant", while Silkwood's boyfriend Drew Stephens expressed approval in that Streep had played Karen as a human being rather than a myth, despite Karen's father Bill thinking that Streep and the film had dumbed his daughter down. Pauline Kael believed that Streep had been miscast.[83] Streep next played opposite Robert De Niro in the romance Falling in Love (1984), which was poorly received, and portrayed a fighter for the French Resistance during World War II in the British drama Plenty (1985), adapted from the play by David Hare. For the latter, Roger Ebert wrote that she conveyed "great subtlety; it is hard to play an unbalanced, neurotic, self-destructive woman, and do it with such gentleness and charm ... Streep creates a whole character around a woman who could have simply been a catalogue of symptoms."[84] In 2008, Molly Haskell praised Streep's performance in Plenty, believing it to be "one of Streep's most difficult and ambiguous" films and "most feminist" role.[85] Longworth considers Streep's next release, Out of Africa (1985), to have established her as a Hollywood superstar. In the film, Streep starred as the Danish writer Karen Blixen, opposite Robert Redford's Denys Finch Hatton. Director Sydney Pollack was initially dubious about Streep in the role, as he did not think she was sexy enough, and had considered Jane Seymour for the part. Pollack recalls that Streep impressed him in a different way: "She was so direct, so honest, so without bullshit. There was no shielding between her and me."[86] Streep and Pollack often clashed during the 101-day shoot in Kenya, particularly over Blixen's voice. Streep had spent much time listening to tapes of Blixen, and began speaking in an old-fashioned and aristocratic fashion, which Pollack thought excessive.[87] A significant commercial success, the film won a Golden Globe for Best Picture.[88] It also earned Streep another Academy Award nomination for Best Actress, and the film ultimately won Best Picture. Film critic Stanley Kauffmann praised her performance, writing "Meryl Streep is back in top form. This means her performance in Out of Africa is at the highest level of acting in film today."[89] Longworth notes that the dramatic success of Out of Africa led to a backlash of critical opinion against Streep in the years that followed, especially as she was now demanding $4 million a picture. Unlike other stars at the time, such as Sylvester Stallone and Tom Cruise, Streep "never seemed to play herself", and certain critics felt her technical finesse led people to literally see her acting.[90] Her next films did not appeal to a wide audience; she co-starred with Jack Nicholson in the dramas Heartburn (1986) and Ironweed (1987), in which she sang onscreen for the first time since the "Great Performances" telecast of the Phoenix Theater production of Secret Service (1977). In Evil Angels[c] (1988), she played Lindy Chamberlain, an Australian woman who had been convicted of the murder of her infant daughter despite claiming that the baby had been taken by a dingo. Filmed in Australia, Streep won the Australian Film Institute Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role,[91][92][93] a Best Actress at the Cannes Film Festival, and the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress.[94] Streep has said of developing the Australian accent in the film: "I had to study a little bit for Australian because it's not dissimilar [to American], so it's like coming from Italian to Spanish. You get a little mixed up."[17] Vincent Canby of The New York Times referred to her performance as "another stunning performance", played with "the kind of virtuosity that seems to re-define the possibilities of screen acting".[95] In 1989, Streep lobbied to play the lead role in Oliver Stone's adaption of the play Evita, but two months before filming was due to commence, she dropped out, citing "exhaustion" initially, although it was later revealed that there was a dispute over her salary.[96] By the end of the decade, Streep actively looked to star in a comedy. She found the role in She-Devil (1989), a satire that parodied societal obsession with beauty and cosmetic surgery, in which she played a glamorous writer.[97] Though the film was not a success, Richard Corliss of Time wrote that Streep was the "one reason" to see it, and observed that it marked a departure from the dramatic roles she was known to play.[98] Reacting to her string of poorly received films, Streep said: "Audiences are shrinking; as the marketing strategy defines more and more narrowly who they want to reach males from 16 to 25 – it's become a chicken-and-egg syndrome. Which came first? First, they release all these summer movies, then do a demographic survey of who's going to see them."[96] 1990s: Commercial fluctuations Biographer Karen Hollinger described the early 1990s as a downturn in the popularity of Streep's films, attributing this partly to a critical perception that her comedies had been an attempt to convey a lighter image following several serious, but commercially unsuccessful, dramas, and, more significantly, to the lack of options available to an actress in her forties.[99] Streep commented that she had limited her options by her preference to work in Los Angeles, close to her family,[99] a situation that she had anticipated in a 1981 interview when she commented, "By the time an actress hits her mid-forties, no one's interested in her anymore. And if you want to fit a couple of babies into that schedule as well, you've got to pick your parts with great care."[71] At the Screen Actor's Guild National Women's Conference in 1990, Streep keynoted the first national event, emphasizing the decline in women's work opportunities, pay parity, and role models within the film industry.[100] She criticized the film industry for downplaying the importance of women both on screen and off.[94] After roles in the comedy-drama Postcards from the Edge (1990), and the comedy-fantasy Defending Your Life (1991), Streep starred with Goldie Hawn in the farcical black comedy, Death Becomes Her (1992), with Bruce Willis as their co-star. Streep persuaded writer David Koepp to re-write several of the scenes, particularly the one in which her character has an affair with a younger man, which she believed was "unrealistically male" in its conception. The seven-month shoot was the longest of Streep's career, during which she got into character by "thinking about being slightly pissed off all of the time".[101] Due to Streep's allergies to numerous cosmetics, special prosthetics had to be designed to age her by ten years to look 54, although Streep believed that they made her look nearer 70.[102] Longworth considers Death Becomes Her to have been "the most physical performance Streep had yet committed to screen, all broad weeping, smirking, and eye-rolling".[103] Although it was a commercial success, earning $15.1 million in just five days, Streep's contribution to comedy was generally not taken well by critics.[104] Time's Richard Corliss wrote approvingly of Streep's "wicked-witch routine" but dismissed the film as "She-Devil with a make-over" and one which "hates women".[105][104] Streep later admitted to having disliked filming the scenes involving heavy special effects, and vowed never to work again on a film with heavy special effects.[106] Streep appeared with Jeremy Irons, Glenn Close and Winona Ryder in The House of the Spirits (1993), set in Chile during Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship. The film was not well received by critics.[107] Anthony Lane of The New Yorker wrote: "This is really quite an achievement. It brings together Jeremy Irons, Meryl Streep, Winona Ryder, Antonio Banderas, and Vanessa Redgrave and insures that, without exception, they all give their worst performances ever".[107] The following year, Streep starred in The River Wild, as the mother of children on a whitewater rafting trip who encounter two violent criminals (Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilly) in the wilderness. Though critical reaction was generally mixed, Peter Travers of Rolling Stone found her to be "strong, sassy and looser than she has ever been onscreen".[108] Streep's most successful film of the decade was the romantic drama The Bridges of Madison County (1995) directed by Clint Eastwood, who adapted the film from Robert James Waller's novel of the same name.[109] It relates the story of Robert Kincaid (Eastwood), a photographer working for National Geographic, who has a love affair with a middle-aged Italian farm wife Francesca (Streep). Though Streep disliked the novel it was based on, she found the script to be a special opportunity for an actress her age.[110] She gained weight for the part and dressed differently from the character in the book to emulate voluptuous Italian film stars such as Sophia Loren. Both Loren and Anna Magnani were an influence in her portrayal, and Streep viewed Pier Paolo Pasolini's Mamma Roma (1962) prior to filming.[111] The film was a box office hit and grossed over $70 million in the United States.[112] The film, unlike the novel, was warmly received by critics. Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote that Eastwood had managed to create "a moving, elegiac love story at the heart of Mr. Waller's self-congratulatory overkill", while Joe Morgenstern of The Wall Street Journal described it as "one of the most pleasurable films in recent memory".[112] Longworth believes that Streep's performance was "crucial to transforming what could have been a weak soap opera into a vibrant work of historical fiction implicitly critiquing postwar America's stifling culture of domesticity".[113] She considers it to have been the role in which Streep became "arguably the first middle-aged actress to be taken seriously by Hollywood as a romantic heroine".[114] Streep played the estranged sister of Bessie (Diane Keaton), a woman battling leukemia, in Marvin's Room (1996), an adaptation of the play by Scott McPherson. Streep recommended Keaton for the role.[115] Roger Ebert stated that, "Streep and Keaton, in their different styles, find ways to make Lee and Bessie into much more than the expression of their problems."[116] The film was well received, and Streep earned another Golden Globe nomination for her performance.[62] Streep's performance in ...First Do No Harm (1997) garnered her a second Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Lead Actress – Miniseries or a Movie. In 1998, Streep first appeared opposite Michael Gambon and Catherine McCormack in Pat O'Connor's Dancing at Lughnasa, another Broadway adaptation, which was entered into the Venice Film Festival in its year of release.[117] Janet Maslin of The New York Times remarked that "Meryl Streep has made many a grand acting gesture in her career, but the way she simply peers out a window in Dancing at Lughnasa ranks with the best. Everything the viewer need know about Kate Mundy, the woman she plays here, is written on that prim, lonely face and its flabbergasted gaze."[118] Later that year, she played a housewife dying of cancer in One True Thing. The film met with positive reviews. Mick LaSalle in the San Francisco Chronicle declared, "After One True Thing, critics who persist in the fiction that Streep is a cold and technical actress will need to get their heads examined. She is so instinctive and natural – so thoroughly in the moment and operating on flights of inspiration – that she's able to give us a woman who's at once wildly idiosyncratic and utterly believable."[119] Los Angeles Times film critic Kenneth Turan noted that her role "is one of the least self-consciously dramatic and surface showy of her career," but she "adds a level of honesty and reality that makes [her performance] one of her most moving".[120] Streep portrayed Roberta Guaspari, a real-life New Yorker who found passion and enlightenment teaching violin to the inner-city kids of East Harlem, in the music drama Music of the Heart (1999). Streep replaced Madonna, who dropped out of the project before filming began due to creative differences with director Wes Craven.[121][122] Required to play the violin, Streep underwent two months of intense training, five to six hours a day.[121] Streep received nominations for an Academy Award, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors Guild Award for her performance. Roger Ebert wrote that "Meryl Streep is known for her mastery of accents; she may be the most versatile speaker in the movies. Here you might think she has no accent, unless you've heard her real speaking voice; then you realize that Guaspari's speaking style is no less a particular achievement than Streep's other accents. This is not Streep's voice, but someone else's – with a certain flat quality, as if later education and refinement came after a somewhat unsophisticated childhood."[123] 2000s: Career resurgence and stage work Streep entered the 2000s with a voice cameo in Steven Spielberg's A.I. Artificial Intelligence (2001), a science fiction film about a childlike android, played by Haley Joel Osment.[124] The same year, Streep co-hosted the annual Nobel Peace Prize Concert with Liam Neeson which was held in Oslo, Norway, on December 11, 2001, in honour of the Nobel Peace Prize laureate, the United Nations and Kofi Annan.[125][126] In 2001, Streep returned to the stage for the first time in more than twenty years, playing Arkadina in The Public Theater's revival of Anton Chekhov's The Seagull, directed by Mike Nichols and co-starring Kevin Kline, Natalie Portman, John Goodman, Marcia Gay Harden, Stephen Spinella, Debra Monk, Larry Pine and Philip Seymour Hoffman.[127] Streep's son, Henry Gummer, later to be known as musician Henry Wolfe, was also featured in the play in the role of Yakov, a hired workman. The same year, Streep began work on Spike Jonze's comedy-drama Adaptation. (2002), in which she portrayed real-life journalist Susan Orlean. Lauded by critics and viewers alike,[128] the film won Streep her fourth Golden Globe in the Best Supporting Actress category.[62] A. O. Scott in The New York Times considered Streep's portrayal of Orlean to have been "played with impish composure", noting the contrast in her "wittily realized" character with love interest Chris Cooper's "lank-haired, toothless charisma" as the autodidact arrested for poaching rare orchids.[129] Streep appeared alongside Nicole Kidman and Julianne Moore in Stephen Daldry's The Hours (2002), based on the 1999 novel by Michael Cunningham. Focusing on three women of different generations whose lives are interconnected by the novel Mrs. Dalloway by Virginia Woolf, the film was generally well received and won all three leading actresses a Silver Bear for Best Actress.[130] In 2003, Streep re-united with Mike Nichols to star with Al Pacino and Emma Thompson in the HBO's adaptation of Tony Kushner's six-hour play Angels in America, the story of two couples whose relationships dissolve amidst the backdrop of Reagan era politics. Streep, who was cast in four roles in the miniseries, received her second Emmy Award and fifth Golden Globe for her performance.[62][131] She appeared in Jonathan Demme's moderately successful remake of The Manchurian Candidate in 2004,[132] co-starring Denzel Washington, playing the role of a woman who is both a U.S. senator and the manipulative, ruthless mother of a vice-presidential candidate.[133] The same year, she played the supporting role of Aunt Josephine in Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events alongside Jim Carrey, based on the first three novels in Snicket's book series. The black comedy received generally favorable reviews from critics,[134] and won the Academy Award for Best Makeup.[135] Streep also narrated the film Monet's Palate.[136] Streep was next cast in the comedy film Prime (2005), directed by Ben Younger. In the film, she played Lisa Metzger, the Jewish psychoanalyst of a divorced and lonesome business-woman, played by Uma Thurman, who enters a relationship with Metzger's 23-year-old son (Bryan Greenberg). A modest mainstream success, it eventually grossed US$67.9 million internationally.[137] Roger Ebert noted how Streep had "that ability to cut through the solemnity of a scene with a zinger that reveals how all human effort is, after all, comic at some level".[138] In August and September 2006, Streep starred onstage at The Public Theater's production of Mother Courage and Her Children at the Delacorte Theatre in Central Park.[139] The Public Theater production was a new translation by playwright Tony Kushner, with songs in the Weill/Brecht style written by composer Jeanine Tesori; veteran director George C. Wolfe was at the helm. Streep starred alongside Kevin Kline and Austin Pendleton in this three-and-a-half-hour play.[140][38] Around the same time, Streep, along with Lily Tomlin, portrayed the last two members of what was once a popular family country music act in Robert Altman's final film A Prairie Home Companion (2006). A comedic ensemble piece featuring Lindsay Lohan, Tommy Lee Jones, Kevin Kline and Woody Harrelson, the film revolves around the behind-the-scenes activities at the long-running public radio show of the same name. The film grossed more than US$26 million, the majority of which came from domestic markets.[141] Commercially, Streep fared better with a role in The Devil Wears Prada (also 2006), a loose screen adaptation of Lauren Weisberger's 2003 novel of the same name. Streep portrayed the powerful and demanding Miranda Priestly, fashion magazine editor (and boss of a recent college graduate played by Anne Hathaway). Though the overall film received mixed reviews, her portrayal, of what Ebert calls the "poised and imperious Miranda",[142] drew rave reviews from critics, and earned her many award nominations, including her record-setting 14th Oscar bid, as well as another Golden Globe.[143][144] On its commercial release, the film became Streep's biggest commercial success to this point, grossing more than US$326.5 million worldwide.[145] She portrayed a wealthy university patron in Chen Shi-zheng's much-delayed feature drama Dark Matter, a film about a Chinese science graduate student who becomes violent after dealing with academic politics at a U.S. university. Inspired by the events of the 1991 University of Iowa shooting,[146] and initially scheduled for a 2007 release, producers and investors decided to shelve Dark Matter out of respect for the victims of the Virginia Tech shooting in April 2007.[147] The drama received negative to mixed reviews upon its limited 2008 release.[148] Streep played a U.S. government official who investigates an Egyptian foreign national suspected of terrorism in the political thriller Rendition (2007), directed by Gavin Hood.[149] Keen to get involved in a thriller film, Streep welcomed the opportunity to star in a film genre for which she was not usually offered scripts, and immediately signed on to the project.[150] Upon its release, Rendition was less commercially successful,[151] and received mixed reviews.[152] In this period, Streep had a short role alongside Vanessa Redgrave, Glenn Close, and her eldest daughter Mamie Gummer in Lajos Koltai's drama film Evening (2007), based on the 1998 novel of the same name by Susan Minot. Switching between the present and the past, it tells the story of a bedridden woman, who remembers her tumultuous life in the mid-1950s.[153] The film was released to a lukewarm reaction from critics, who called it "beautifully filmed, but decidedly dull [and] a colossal waste of a talented cast".[154] She had a role in Robert Redford's Lions for Lambs (also 2007), a film about the connection between a platoon of United States soldiers in Afghanistan, a U.S. senator, a reporter, and a California college professor. Like Evening, critics felt that the talent of the cast was wasted, and that it suffered from slow pacing, although one critic announced that Streep positively stood out, being "natural, unforced, quietly powerful", in comparison to Redford's forced performance.[155] Streep found major commercial success when she starred in Phyllida Lloyd's Mamma Mia! (2008), a film adaptation of the musical of the same name, based on the songs of Swedish pop group ABBA. Co-starring Amanda Seyfried, Pierce Brosnan, Stellan Skarsgård, Colin Firth, Julie Walters, and Christine Baranski, Streep played a single mother and a former girl-group singer, whose daughter (Seyfried), a bride-to-be who never met her father, invites three likely paternal candidates to her wedding on the idyllic Greek island of Skopelos known in the film as Kalokairi.[156] An instant box office success, Mamma Mia! became Streep's highest-grossing film to date, with box office receipts of US$602.6 million,[157] also ranking it first among the highest-grossing musical films.[158] Nominated for another Golden Globe, Streep's performance was generally well received by critics, with Wesley Morris of The Boston Globe commenting: "The greatest actor in American movies has finally become a movie star."[159] Doubt (also 2008) features Streep with Philip Seymour Hoffman, Amy Adams, and Viola Davis. A drama revolving around the stern principal nun (Streep) of a Bronx Catholic school in 1964 who brings accusations of pedophilia against a popular priest (Hoffman), the film became a moderate box office success,[160] and was hailed by many critics as one of the best films of 2008. The film received five Academy Awards nominations, for its four lead actors and for John Patrick Shanley's script.[161] Ebert, who awarded the film the full four stars, highlighted Streep's caricature of a nun, who "hates all inroads of the modern world",[162] while Kelly Vance of The East Bay Express remarked: "It's thrilling to see a pro like Streep step into an already wildly exaggerated role, and then ramp it up a few notches just for the sheer hell of it. Grim, red-eyed, deathly pale Sister Aloysius may be the scariest nun of all time."[163] In 2009, Streep played chef Julia Child in Nora Ephron's Julie & Julia, co-starring with Stanley Tucci, and again with Amy Adams. (Tucci and Streep had worked together earlier in Devil Wears Prada.) The first major motion picture based on a blog, Julie and Julia contrasts the life of Child in the early years of her culinary career with the life of young New Yorker Julie Powell (Adams), who aspires to cook all 524 recipes in Child's cookbook Mastering the Art of French Cooking.[164] Longworth believes her caricature of Julia Child was "quite possibly the biggest performance of her career, while also drawing on her own experience to bring lived-in truth to the story of a late bloomer".[113] In Nancy Meyers' romantic comedy It's Complicated (also 2009), Streep starred with Alec Baldwin and Steve Martin. She received nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for both Julie & Julia and It's Complicated; she won the award for Julie & Julia, and later received her 16th Oscar nomination for it.[165] She also lent her voice to Mrs. Felicity Fox in Wes Anderson's stop-motion film Fantastic Mr. Fox.[166] 2010s: Further critical and commercial success Streep re-teamed with Mamma Mia director Phyllida Lloyd on The Iron Lady (2011), a British biographical film about Margaret Thatcher, which takes a look at the Prime Minister during the Falklands War and her years in retirement.[167] Streep, who attended a session of the House of Commons to see British Members of Parliament (MPs) in action in preparation for her role as Thatcher,[168] called her casting "a daunting and exciting challenge".[169] While the film had a mixed reception, Streep's performance gained rave reviews, earning her Best Actress awards at the Golden Globes and the BAFTAs, as well as her third win at the 84th Academy Awards.[170] Former advisers, friends, and family of Thatcher criticized Streep's portrayal of her as "inaccurate" and "biased".[171] The following year, after Thatcher's death, Streep issued a formal statement describing Thatcher's "hard-nosed fiscal measures" and "hands-off approach to financial regulation", while praising her "personal strength and grit".[172] Streep re-united with Prada director David Frankel on the set of the romantic comedy-drama film Hope Springs (2012), co-starring Tommy Lee Jones and Steve Carell. Streep and Jones play a middle-aged couple, who attend a week of intensive marriage counseling to try to bring back the intimacy missing in their relationship. Reviews for the film were mostly positive, with critics praising the "mesmerizing performances ... which offer filmgoers some grown-up laughs – and a thoughtful look at mature relationships".[173] In 2013, Streep starred alongside Julia Roberts and Ewan McGregor in the black comedy drama August: Osage County (2013) about a dysfunctional family that re-unites into the familial house when their patriarch suddenly disappears. Based on Tracy Letts's Pulitzer Prize-winning eponymous play, Streep received positive reviews for her portrayal of the family's strong-willed and contentious matriarch, who is suffering from oral cancer and an addiction to narcotics. She was subsequently nominated for another Golden Globe, SAG, and Academy Award.[174] In 2014's The Giver, a motion picture adaptation of the young adult novel, Streep played a community leader.[175] Set in 2048, the social science fiction film recounts the story of a post-apocalyptic community without war, pain, suffering, differences or choice, where a young boy is chosen to learn the real world. Streep was aware of the book before being offered the role by co-star and producer Jeff Bridges.[176] Upon its release, The Giver was met with generally mixed to negative reviews from critics.[177] Streep also had a small role in the period drama film The Homesman (2014). Set in the 1850s midwest, the film stars Hilary Swank and Tommy Lee Jones as an unusual pair who help three women driven to madness by the frontier to get back East. Streep does not appear until near the end of the film, playing a preacher's wife, who takes the women into care.[178] The Homesman premiered at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival where it garnered largely positive reviews from critics.[179] Directed by Rob Marshall, Into the Woods (also 2014) is a Disney film adaptation of the Broadway musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim in which Streep plays a witch.[180] A fantasy genre crossover inspired by the Grimm Brothers' fairy tales, it centers on a childless couple who set out to end a curse placed on them by Streep's vengeful witch.[181][182] Though the film was dismissed by some critics such as Mark Kermode as "irritating naffness",[183] Streep's performance earned her Academy Award, Golden Globe, SAG, and Critic's Choice Award nominations for Best Supporting Actress.[184] In July 2014, it was announced that Streep would portray Maria Callas in Master Class, but the project was pulled after director Mike Nichols's death in November of the same year.[185] In 2015, Streep starred in Jonathan Demme's Ricki and the Flash, playing a grocery store checkout worker by day who is a rock musician at night, and who has one last chance to reconnect with her estranged family.[186] Streep learned to play the guitar for the semi-autobiographical drama-comedy film,[187] which again featured Streep with her eldest daughter Mamie Gummer.[187] Reviews of the film were generally mixed.[188] Streep's other film of this time was director Sarah Gavron's period drama Suffragette (also 2015), co-starring Carey Mulligan and Helena Bonham Carter. In the film, she played the small, but pivotal, role of Emmeline Pankhurst, a British political activist and leader of the British suffragette movement who helped women win the right to vote.[189] The film received mostly positive reviews, particularly for the performances of the cast, though its distributor earned criticism that Streep's prominent position within the marketing was misleading.[190] Following the duties of the president at the 66th Berlin International Film Festival in 2016,[191] Streep starred in the Stephen Frears-directed comedy Florence Foster Jenkins (2016), an eponymous biopic about a blithely unaware tone-deaf opera singer who insists upon public performance.[192] Other cast members were Hugh Grant and Simon Helberg.[193] Robbie Collin considered it to be one of her most "human performance" and felt that it was "full of warmth that gives way to heart-pinching pathos".[194] She won the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress in a Comedy,[195] and received Academy Award, Golden Globe, SAG, and BAFTA nominations.[196] Streep next starred as the first American female newspaper publisher, Katharine Graham, to Tom Hanks' Ben Bradlee, in Steven Spielberg's political drama The Post (2017), which centers on The Washington Post's publication of the 1971 Pentagon Papers.[197] The film received positive reviews with praise directed to the performances of the two leads.[198] Manohla Dargis wrote that "Streep creates an acutely moving portrait of a woman who in liberating herself helps instigate a revolution".[199] It earned over $177 million against a budget of $50 million.[200] Streep received her 31st Golden Globe nomination and 21st Academy Award nomination for Best Actress.[201][202] In 2018, Streep briefly reprised her role in the musical sequel Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again.[203] She also played a supporting part in Rob Marshall's Mary Poppins Returns, a musical sequel to the 1964 film Mary Poppins starring Emily Blunt in the titular role.[204] Streep next featured in her first main role in a television series by starring in the second season of the HBO drama series Big Little Lies in 2019. She took on the part of Mary Louise Wright, the mother-in-law of Nicole Kidman's character.[205] Liane Moriarty, author of the novel of the same name, on which the first season is based, wrote a 200-page novella that served as the basis for the second season. Moriarty decided to name the new character Mary Louise, after Streep's legal name. Streep subsequently agreed to the part without reading a script for the first time in her career.[206] Writing for the BBC, Caryn James labeled her performance "delicious and wily" and found her to be the "embodiment of a passive-aggressive granny".[207] She received an Emmy nomination for the show. The same year, Streep then starred in the Steven Soderbergh-directed biographical comedy The Laundromat, about the Panama Papers, opposite Gary Oldman and Antonio Banderas. It was the first movie distributed by Netflix in which Streep starred.[208] She also played Aunt March in Greta Gerwig's Little Women, co-starring with Saoirse Ronan, Emma Watson, Florence Pugh, Timothée Chalamet, and Laura Dern.[209] David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Streep's performance writing, "Streep is clearly having a ball as the imperious snob who snorts with disapproval...[and] does her best to hide her affection for her nieces behind her narrowed gaze and all-purpose disdain".[210] The film received critical acclaim and grossed over $218 million against its $40 million budget.[211][212] 2020s: Streaming projects In 2020, she voiced a role in the Apple TV+ animated short film Here We Are: Notes for Living on Planet Earth.[213] Streep had leading roles in two films, both released by streaming services. She reunited with Nicole Kidman for Netflix, in Ryan Murphy's The Prom (2020), a film adaptation of the Broadway musical of the same name.[214] That same year she also reunited with director Steven Soderbergh for his HBO Max comedy film Let Them All Talk (2020).[215] Streep starred alongside Dianne Wiest, Candice Bergen, Lucas Hedges, and Gemma Chan. Richard Lawson of Vanity Fair noted, "Streep could, in some senses, be approaching the film as a meta commentary on her own ivied stature as the world's greatest living actor (in some people's estimation, anyway). If that is what's happening, she never betrays her motivations with a wink. It's all played pretty earnestly".[216] The following year, Streep starred opposite Leonardo DiCaprio and Jennifer Lawrence in Don't Look Up (2021), directed by Adam McKay for Netflix.[217] Streep played a comical role as the fictional President of the United States who waves off the fears of climate change. In his mixed review, Peter DeBruge of Variety compared her performance of that of Donald Trump, adding she was "clearly having more fun than we are".[218] Streep served as an executive producer on Sell/Buy/Date (2022), directed by Sarah Jones.[219] She acted in the Apple TV+ anthology series Extrapolations (2023).[220] Later that year, she began playing Loretta Durkin, a struggling actress, from the third season of the Hulu comedy series Only Murders in the Building, starring Steve Martin, Martin Short and Selena Gomez.[221][222] Leila Latif of The Guardian wrote, "Streep, unsurprisingly, plays Loretta beautifully, truly tapping into the agony of a woman who's faced a lifetime of rejection but somehow kept her dream alive".[223] She received a Golden Globe, and Primetime Emmy Award nomination and won a Critics’ Choice Television Award.[224][225] Other ventures After Streep starred in Mamma Mia!, her rendition of the titular song rose to popularity on the Portuguese music charts, where it peaked at number eight in October 2008.[226] At the 35th People's Choice Awards, her version of "Mamma Mia" won an award for "Favorite Song From A Soundtrack".[227] In 2008, Streep was nominated for a Grammy Award (her fifth nomination) for her work on the Mamma Mia! soundtrack.[228] Streep has narrated numerous audio books, including three by children's book author William Steig: Brae Irene, Spinky Sulks, and The One and Only Shrek!.[229] Streep is the spokesperson for the National Women's History Museum, to which she has made significant donations (including her fee for The Iron Lady, which was $1 million), and hosted numerous events.[230] On October 4, 2012, Streep donated $1 million to The Public Theater in honor of both its late founder, Joseph Papp, and her friend, the author Nora Ephron.[231] She also supports Gucci's "Chime for Change" campaign that aims to spread female empowerment.[232] In 2014, Streep established two scholarships for students at the University of Massachusetts Lowell – the Meryl Streep Endowed Scholarship for English majors, and the Joan Hertzberg Endowed Scholarship (named for Streep's former classmate at Vassar College) for math majors.[233] In April 2015, it was announced that Streep had funded a screenwriters lab for female screenwriters over forty years old, called the Writers Lab, to be run by New York Women in Film & Television and the collective IRIS.[234][235] The Lab was the only one of its kind in the world for female screenwriters over forty years old.[235] In 2015, Streep signed an open letter for which One Campaign had been collecting signatures; the letter was addressed to Angela Merkel and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, urging them to focus on women as they served as heads of the G7 in Germany and the AU in South Africa, respectively, in setting development funding priorities.[236] Also in 2015, Streep sent each member of the U.S. Congress a letter supporting the Equal Rights Amendment.[237] Each of her letters was sent with a copy of the book Equal Means Equal: Why the Time for the ERA is Now by Jessica Neuwirth, president of the ERA Coalition.[238] When asked in a 2015 interview with Time Out if she was a feminist, Streep replied, "I am a humanist, I am for nice easy balance."[239] In March 2016, Streep, among others, signed a letter asking for gender equality throughout the world, in observance of International Women's Day; this was also organized by One Campaign.[240] In 2018, she collaborated with 300 women in Hollywood to set up the Time's Up initiative to protect women from harassment and discrimination.[241] On April 25, 2017, Streep publicly backed the campaign to free Oleg Sentsov, a Ukrainian filmmaker from Crimea who was subjected to a sham trial by Russia and jailed in Siberia for 20 years in August 2015. She was pictured alongside Ukrainian lawmaker Mustafa Nayyem with a "Free Sentsov" sign in a photograph taken during the PEN America Annual Literary Gala on April 25, at which Sentsov was honoured with a 2017 PEN/Barbey Freedom to Write award.[242] Reception and legacy In 2004, Streep was awarded the AFI Life Achievement Award by the board of directors of the American Film Institute.[243] In 2011, she received a Kennedy Center Honors, introduced by Tracey Ullman, and speeches by 2009 Kennedy Center Honoree Robert De Niro and 2003 Kennedy Center Honoree Mike Nichols. Those also to honor Streep included, Kevin Kline, Emily Blunt, Stanley Tucci, and Anne Hathaway. The tribute ended with the whole cast who sang "She's My Pal", a play on "He's My Pal" from Ironweed.[244] In November 2014, President Barack Obama bestowed upon Streep the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.[245] The citation reads as follows, "Meryl Streep is one of the most widely known and acclaimed actors in history. Ms. Streep has captured our imaginations with her unparalleled ability to portray a wide range of roles and attract an audience that has only grown over time, portraying characters who embody the full range of the human experience."[246] In January 2017, Viola Davis presented Streep with the Cecil B. DeMille at the Golden Globes. Davis stated to Streep "You make me proud to be an artist".[247] In her acceptance speech, Streep quoted the recently departed Carrie Fisher, saying, "Take your broken heart and make it into art."[248] Vanity Fair commented that "it's hard to imagine that there was a time before Meryl Streep was the greatest-living actress".[18] Emma Brockes of The Guardian notes that despite Streep's being "one of the most famous actresses in the world", it is "strangely hard to pin an image on Streep", in a career where she has "laboured to establish herself as an actor whose roots lie in ordinary life".[17] Despite her success, Streep has always been modest about her own acting and achievements in cinema. She has stated that she has no particular method when it comes to acting, learning from the days of her early studies that she cannot articulate her practice. She said in 1987, "I have a smattering of things I've learned from different teachers, but nothing I can put into a valise and open it up and say 'Now, which one would you like?' Nothing I can count on, and that makes it more dangerous. But then, the danger makes it more exciting." She has stated that her ideal director is one who gives her complete artistic control, allowing her to have a degree of improvisation and to learn from her mistakes.[249] Women are better at acting than men. Why? Because we have to be. If successfully convincing somebody bigger than you of something he doesn't know is a survival skill, this is how women have survived through the millennia. Pretending is not just play. Pretending is imagined possibility. Pretending or acting is a very valuable life skill, and we all do it. All the time. — Streep on acting[22] Karina Longworth notes how "external" Streep's performances are, "chameleonic" in her impersonation of characters, "subsuming herself into them, rather than personifying them". In her early roles such as Manhattan and Kramer vs. Kramer, she was compared to both Diane Keaton and Jill Clayburgh, in that her characters were unsympathetic, which Streep has attributed to the tendency to be drawn to playing women who are difficult to like and lack empathy.[249] Streep has stated that many consider her to be a technical actor, but she professed that it comes down to her love of reading the initial script, adding, "I come ready and I don't want to screw around and waste the first 10 takes on adjusting lighting and everybody else getting comfortable".[113] Mike Nichols, who directed Streep in Silkwood, Heartburn, Postcards from the Edge, and Angels in America, praised Streep's ability to transform herself into her characters, remarking that, "In every role, she becomes a totally new human being. As she becomes the person she is portraying, the other performers begin to react to her as if she were that person."[250] He said that directing her is "so much like falling in love that it has the characteristics of a time which you remember as magical, but which is shrouded in mystery".[251] He also noted that Streep's acting ability had a profound impact on her co-stars, and that "one could improve by 1000% purely by watching her".[250] Longworth believes that in nearly every film, Streep has "sly infused" a feminist point of view in her portrayals.[252] However, film critic Molly Haskell has stated, "None of her heroines are feminist, strictly speaking. Yet, they uncannily embody various crosscurrents of experience in the last twenty years, as women have re-defined themselves against the background of the women's movement".[113] Streep is well known for her ability to imitate a wide range of accents[253] – from Danish in Out of Africa (1985) to British Received Pronunciation in The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981), Plenty (1985), and The Iron Lady (2011); Italian in The Bridges of Madison County (1995); a southern American accent in The Seduction of Joe Tynan (1979); a Minnesota accent in A Prairie Home Companion (2006); Upstate New York in Ironweed (1987); and a heavy Bronx accent in Doubt (2008). Streep has stated that she grew up listening to artists such as Barbra Streisand, the Beatles, and Bob Dylan, and she learned a lot about how to use her voice, her "instrument", by listening to Barbra Streisand's albums.[254] In the film Evil Angels (1988, released in the U.S. as A Cry in the Dark), in which she portrays a New Zealand transplant to Australia, Streep developed a hybrid of Australian and New Zealand English. Her performance received the Australian Film Institute Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role,[91][92] as well as Best Actress at the Cannes Film Festival, and the New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress.[94] For her role in the film Sophie's Choice (1982), Streep spoke both English and German with a Polish accent, as well as Polish itself.[255] In The Iron Lady, she reproduced the vocal style of Margaret Thatcher from the time before Thatcher became Britain's Prime Minister, and after she had taken elocution lessons to change her pitch, pronunciation, and delivery.[256][255] Streep has commented that using accents as part of her acting is a technique she views as an obvious requirement in her portrayal of a character.[257] When questioned in Belfast as to how she reproduces different accents, Streep replied in a reportedly "perfect" Belfast accent: "I listen."[258][259][257] Activism and advocacy Politically, Streep has described herself as part of the American Left.[260] She gave a speech at the 2016 Democratic National Convention in support of presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.[261] In January 2017, Streep was honored with the Cecil B. DeMille Award for Lifetime Achievement at the 74th Golden Globe Awards, during which she delivered a predominantly political speech that implicitly criticized President-elect Donald Trump. She argued that Trump had a very strong platform and used it inappropriately to mock a disabled reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski, whom, in her words, Trump "outranked in privilege, power, and the capacity to fight back".[262] Trump responded by calling Streep "one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood," and "a Hillary flunky who lost big."[263] While promoting Suffragette in 2015, Streep accused the review-aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes of disproportionately representing the opinions of male film critics, resulting in a skewed ratio that adversely affected the commercial performances of female-driven films.[264] In June 2023, Streep was reported as one of many A-List members of the SAG-AFTRA who signed a letter threatening to strike.[265] Personal life Author Karina Longworth notes that despite her stardom, for decades Streep has managed to maintain a relatively normal personal life.[22] Streep lived with actor John Cazale in the 1970s, caring for him after his lung cancer diagnosis until he died in March 1978.[266] Streep said of his death: I didn't get over it. I don't want to get over it. No matter what you do, the pain is always there in some recess of your mind, and it affects everything that happens afterwards. I think you can assimilate the pain and go on without making an obsession of it.[60] Streep married sculptor Don Gummer six months after Cazale's death.[267] They have four children: musician Henry Wolfe Gummer (born 1979), and actresses Mary Willa "Mamie" Gummer (born 1983), Grace Jane Gummer (born 1986), and Louisa Jacobson Gummer (born 1991).[9][268] In 1985, the family moved into a $1.8-million private estate in Connecticut and lived there until they bought a $3-million mansion in Brentwood, Los Angeles, in 1990.[269] They later moved back to Connecticut.[270][271] In 2023, it was reported that Streep and Gummer had been separated for more than six years. They were publicly last seen together at the 90th Academy Awards in 2018.[272] Streep is the godmother of Billie Lourd, daughter of fellow actress and close friend Carrie Fisher.[273] Fisher wrote the screenplay for Streep's 1990 film Postcards from the Edge, based on Fisher's book.[274] When asked if religion plays a part in her life in 2009, Streep replied: "I follow no doctrine. I don't belong to a church or a temple or a synagogue or an ashram."[275] In an interview in December 2008, she alluded to her lack of religious belief when she said: So, I've always been really, deeply interested because I think I can understand the solace that's available in the whole construct of religion. But I really don't believe in the power of prayer, or things would have been avoided that have happened, that are awful. So, it's a horrible position as an intelligent, emotional, yearning human being to sit outside of the available comfort there. But I just can't go there.[276] When asked where she draws consolation in the face of aging and death, Streep responded: Consolation? I'm not sure I have it. I have a belief, I guess, in the power of the aggregate human attempt – the best of ourselves. In love and hope and optimism – you know, the magic things that seem inexplicable. Why we are the way we are. I do have a sense of trying to make things better. Where does that come from?[276] Acting credits and awards One of the most prolific actresses of screen and stage since her career's inception in the late 1970s, Streep's most acclaimed and highest-grossing films, according to the review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes, include Julia (1977), The Deer Hunter (1978), Kramer vs. Kramer (1979), The French Lieutenant's Woman (1981), Sophie's Choice (1982), Silkwood (1983), A Cry in the Dark (1988),[d] Postcards from the Edge (1990), Defending Your Life (1991), The Bridges of Madison County (1995), Marvin's Room (1996), Adaptation (2002), The Devil Wears Prada (2007), Mamma Mia (2008), Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009), The Homesman (2014), Florence Foster Jenkins (2016), Little Women (2019), and Let Them All Talk (2020). Her television projects include the miniseries Holocaust (1978), the television film ...First Do No Harm (1997), the miniseries Angels in America (2003), and the drama series Big Little Lies (2019).[278] Her stage roles include the Broadway theatre productions A Memory of Two Mondays, 27 Wagons Full of Cotton (both 1976) and The Cherry Orchard (1977), as well as multiple plays at the Delacorte Theater. Streep has been recognised by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) for the following performances: These nominations make Streep the most Academy Award-nominated performer in history, with 21 in total (17 for Best Actress and four for Best Supporting Actress), as well as one of only 13 performers to win an Oscar in both acting categories and one of only three performers to win three Academy Awards across the two acting categories (with Ingrid Bergman and Jack Nicholson being the only others to achieve this feat). She has also received six Grammy Award nominations, five Primetime Emmy Award nominations (with three wins), and one Tony Award nomination. Streep is one of few performers to be nominated for the Triple Crown of Acting and EGOT. Her other accolades include two BAFTA Awards for Best Actress in a Leading Role (for The French Lieutenant's Woman and The Iron Lady), nine Golden Globe Awards (as well as the honorary Cecil B. DeMille Award), a Silver Bear and Honorary Golden Bear in Berlin International Film Festival, Best Actress, Honorary Palme d'Or in Cannes Film Festival and two Screen Actors Guild Awards. Discography See also Notes References Sources Further reading External links
==== END ENTRY ====

==== BEGIN ENTRY ====
TITLE: Meryl Streep
URL: https://www.kennedy-center.org/artists/s/so-sz/meryl-streep/
SNIPPET: Streep has made more than 45 movies and has received 16 Academy Award nominations, winning two, and 25 Golden Globe nominations, winning seven.
CONTENT:
<strong data-cart-timer="" role="text"></strong> Page Navigation Partner Organizations Utility Navigation Utility Page Navigation Partner Organizations Meryl Streep Honoree The 2011 Kennedy Center Honors (Actress, born June 22, 1949, in Summit, New Jersey) Versatility and genius often go hand in hand, but seldom as exuberantly as in Meryl Streep's body of work. From Shakespeare to ABBA, from Sophie's Choice and Kramer vs. Kramer right through Julie Julia and The Devil Wears Prada, from tragedy to musicals and everything in between, the sheer breadth and joy of her artistry counts as one of the most exhilarating cultural spectacles of our time. Going into her fourth decade of acting, Streep has made more than 45 movies and has received 16 Academy Award nominations, winning two, and 25 Golden Globe nominations, winning seven, more nominations than any other actor in the history of either award. Her work has also earned her two my Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, a Cannes Film Festival award, five New York Film Critics Circle Awards, five Grammy Award nominations, a BAFTA award, an and an Australian Film Institute Award. She was awarded the American Film Institute's Life achievement Award in 2004. From her earliest work beginning in 1978 in The Deer Hunter and Kramer vs. Kramer, critics and audiences immediately realized Streep was a dazzling new presence in American Cinema. When people witnessed her Oscar-winning performance in 1982 as a Polish Nazi camp survivor in Sophie's Choice, she became the role model for all of her fellow actresses and those that would follow. "I grew up with Meryl Streep, and she was the greatest actress that my whole generation of women aspires to be," said Oscar winner Nicole Kidman. Most astonishingly, at age 62, she has transformed herself into one of the world's most enduring stars, the driving force at the center of some of the biggest world-wide hits of the past few years: The Devil Wears Prada, Mamma Mia!, Julie Julia, and It's Complicated. It's remarkable for any actor to wield that much power at the box office after four decades in the business, but it is unprecedented in the 100-year history of American movies for an actress to do so. She's more popular now than she's ever been. "She is the hottest actress in America," says Nora Ephron. Bookended by those startling early performances which made everyone take notice, and her current resplendent career renaissance as international box office queen, Streep's singular filmography is distinguished by some of the most iconic, ambitious, intelligent, and entertaining films made in the past three decades: Manhattan (1979), The Seduction of Joe Tynan (1979), Silkwood (1983), Plenty (1985), Out of Africa (1985), Heartburn (1986), Ironweed (1987), A Cry in the Dark (1988), She-Devil (1989), Postcards from the Edge (1990), The Bridges of Madison County (1995), Marvin's Room (1996), Dancing At Lughnasa (1998), Adaptation (2002), The Hours (2002), The Manchurian Candidate (2004), A Prairie Home Companion (2006), Rendition (2007), and Doubt (2008). Together these performances are extraordinary examples of insight, depth, range, and virtuosity. "She is a great actress, probably the best of her generation, and has given one wonderful performance after another," says the film critic Roger Ebert. Now Meryl Streep has filmed the role of Margaret Thatcher in The Iron Lady, a biopic of one of the most controversial prime ministers in British history. She was born Mary Louise Streep in Summit, New Jersey, the daughter of Harry Streep, Jr., a pharmaceutical executive, and Mary Wilkinson, an artist and former art editor. At first interested in opera, Streep decided to study theater instead, graduating with a bachelor's degree in drama from Vassar College in 1971 and earning an M.F.A. from the Yale School of Drama in 1975. While at Yale, she played a variety of roles onstage, from Shakespearean heroines to 90-year-olds, creating a buzz even as a student for her chameleonic brilliance. "It was immediately apparent," said then-dean Robert Brustein, "that she was destined for greatness." Her early career in New York included work with the New York Shakespeare Festival, on Broadway starring in the Brecht/Weill musical Happy End, earning a Tony nomination as best featured actress in Tennessee Williams' 27 Wagons Full of Cotton, and winning an Obie for her performance in the all-sung off-Broadway production of Alice at the Palace. In 1978, she won an my Award for her role in the television miniseries Holocaust. (Twenty-six years later she would win another for Angels in America.) 1978 also saw Streep's movie career blossom with her role in the The Deer Hunter. She received her first Academy Award nomination and one year later won the Academy Award for Best supporting actress for her role as the icy Joanna Kramer in Kramer vs. Kramer. Streep's talent has never been in question. She has brought her virtuosity to a breathtaking range of characters. Actors and directors are enthralled by her. "Her training and her experience have taken her to a point where she can be effortless with a lot of things other people have to work really hard at," says her Out of Africa co-star Robert Redford. Director Alan J. Pakula said, "If there's a heaven for directors, it would be to direct Meryl Streep your whole life." And from film critic Molly Haskell: "She's proving now, in the freedom and prosperity of a spectacularly attractive late middle age that she can do effortless as well as strenuous, ensemble as well as star, enjoy rather than hide behind her talent. More than that, it's as if audiences who'd been lulled into a catatonia of admiration or vexation were forced to wake up and take notice of the dazzling dexterity and audacity of this woman who's amassed a body of work that's phenomenal any way you look at it." Site Footer Info, Contact & Actions Directions & Policies Social Media Copyright 1990-2024. All rights reserved. By using this site, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions which describe our use of cookies. Reserve Tickets Review Cart You have 0 items in your cart. Your cart is empty. Keep Exploring Proceed to Cart & Checkout Donate Today Support the performing arts with your donation To join or renew as a Member, please visit our Membership page. To make a donation in memory of someone, please visit our Memorial Donation page.
==== END ENTRY ====

==== BEGIN ENTRY ====
TITLE: Meryl Streep: Biography, Actor, 2024 Emmy Nominee
URL: https://www.biography.com/actors/meryl-streep
SNIPPET: Oscar-winning actor Meryl Streep is one of the most esteemed stars of the screen, known for the movies Sophie's Choice, The Devil Wears Prada, and The Iron ...
CONTENT:
Meryl Streep Oscar-winning actor Meryl Streep is one of the most esteemed stars of the screen, known for the movies Sophie’s Choice, The Devil Wears Prada, and The Iron Lady. We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. Meryl Streep Now: Actor Seeks Fourth Emmy Win Acting legend Meryl Streep secured a 2024 Emmy nomination for her performance in the Hulu comedy-drama series Only Murders in the Building. The 75-year-old joined the cast of the show in its third season, portraying Loretta Durkin, a quirky struggling actor with a hefty secret. Streep is competing for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series alongside fellow icon Carol Burnett, as well as Janelle James, Hannah Einbinder, Sheryl Lee Ralph, and Liza Colón-Zayas. If Streep wins at the 76th awards ceremony on September 15, she’ll have a fourth Emmy to add to her collection. Get Ready for the Ceremony The actor’s last Emmy win was seven years ago. She was recognized for her narration of an episode of Netflix’s docuseries Five Came Back. In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter in March, Streep revealed she actually asked to appear on Only Murders in the Building, reaching out directly to one of the show’s stars Steve Martin, whom she had a “really fun” time working with previously. “I was a huge fan of the show, but I also just wanted to have some fun because the world is pretty shitty right now,” she said. Jump to: Who Is Meryl Streep? Meryl Streep began her career on the New York stage in the late 1960s and appeared in several Broadway productions. Streep transitioned to movies in the 1970s and soon began earning major accolades, eventually winning Oscars for Kramer vs. Kramer, Sophie’s Choice, and The Iron Lady, among a league of nominations. She holds the record for most Academy Award nominations of any actor at 21 nods. Equally able to wow audiences in drama, comedy, and musicals, Streep is considered one of the greatest actors of our time. Quick Facts FULL NAME: Mary Louise StreepBORN: June 22, 1949BIRTHPLACE: Summit, New JerseySPOUSE: Don Gummer (1978-2017; separated)CHILDREN: Henry, Mamie, Grace, and LouisaASTROLOGICAL SIGN: Cancer Early Career Meryl Streep was born Mary Louise Streep on June 22, 1949, in Summit, New Jersey. A graduate of Vassar College and Yale Drama School, she began her career on the New York stage in the late 1960s and appeared in several Broadway productions, including a 1977 revival of the Anton Chekhov drama The Cherry Orchard. Movies and TV Shows The Deer Hunter and Kramer vs. Kramer Streep broke into movies in the 1970s with a role in the 1977 drama Julia. The next year, she appeared in The Deer Hunter opposite Robert De Niro and Christopher Walken. Her performance earned the first of many Academy Award nominations, this time for Best Supporting Actress. Also in 1978, she won her first Emmy Award for her role in the film Holocaust. In 1979, her portrayal of a woman who abandons her family only to come back and fight for custody of her son in Kramer vs. Kramer brought Streep the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress, marking her first Academy Award. Sophie’s Choice and Out of Africa A chameleon onscreen, Streep spent much of the 1980s submerged in a variety of roles. In Sophie’s Choice (1982), she convincingly played a Polish woman traumatized by her experiences during the Holocaust. Streep won her second Academy Award—her first for Best Actress—for her work on the movie. In Out of Africa (1985), she took on the role of a Danish plantation owner living in Kenya. The role earned her another Academy Award nomination. Postcards from the Edge and The Bridges of Madison County As she reached her 40s, Streep continued to find challenging roles—a feat many middle-age actresses have struggled with in Hollywood. She received an Academy Award nomination for her work in several films, including the big-screen adaptations of Carrie Fisher’s novel Postcards from the Edge (1990) and of Robert James Waller’s romantic drama The Bridges of Madison County (1995) co-starring Clint Eastwood. Streep also received an Oscar nod for her work in Music of the Heart (1999), which tells the true story of a teacher who brings music into the lives of kids in New York’s Harlem neighborhood by teaching them how to play the violin. The Hours and Adaptation By the start of the new millennium, Streep was as busy as ever. In 2002, she appeared in two critically acclaimed movies: The Hours and Adaptation. Streep was then nominated for an Academy Award for her portrayal of author Susan Orlean in Adaptation. The following year, Streep lit up the small screen in the TV adaptation of the award-winning play Angels in America. She won her second Emmy Award for her work on the program, which had her tackling several roles. The Manchurian Candidate and The Devil Wears Prada Streep got a chance to show some of her comic skills as a villain in the political thriller The Manchurian Candidate (2004). Continuing to explore lighthearted fare, she starred in Prime (2005), a romantic comedy with Uma Thurman and Bryan Greenberg. Streep played psychoanalyst Lisa Metzger, whose client falls in love with her son. She also played the inimitable fashion magazine editor Miranda Priestly in The Devil Wears Prada (2006), for which she earned Academy Award and Golden Globe nominations for best actress. The movie was based on a novel of the same name by Lauren Weisberger, who once worked for longtime Vogue editor Anna Wintour. Wintour is presumed to be the inspiration for Priestly in the book and movie. Dive Deeper A Prairie Home Companion and Mamma Mia! Also in 2006, Streep was cast as country music singer Yolanda Johnson in Robert Altman’s A Prairie Home Companion, and she again showed off her vocal abilities as Donna in the film adaptation of the ABBA musical Mamma Mia! (2008). Streep later reprised her role in the sequel Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again (2018). Related Story Doubt and Julie & Julia Returning to more serious work, Streep appeared in the 2008 film Doubt, which addresses sexual abuse in the Catholic church. She played a nun who becomes suspicious of a priest’s behavior (Phillip Seymour Hoffman) toward a young student. Streep yet again earned Academy Award and Golden Globe nods. In 2009, Streep took on one of the culinary world’s most beloved figures, Julia Child. She played the famous chef in the film Julie & Julia, based on the bestselling book of the same title. For this role, she won the Golden Globe Award for Lead Actress in a Comedy or Musical and received an Academy Award nomination. She then starred in Nancy Meyers’ romantic comedy It’s Complicated, with costars Alec Baldwin and Steve Martin, which earned her another Golden Globe nod. The Real Julie and Julia The Iron Lady Streep received widespread acclaim for her work in 2011’s The Iron Lady. She portrayed former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher, a dynamic and forceful politician who was both admired by some and detested by others. While Thatcher was called cold and unfeeling, Streep believed that Thatcher “was canny about the fact that in order to be taken seriously, she wasn’t able to show certain emotions because she was a woman.” Streep’s thoughtful and nuanced performance as Thatcher garnered her several awards, including a Golden Globe. Read Her Biography The Iron Lady also brought Streep her third Academy Award in 2012. In her acceptance speech, the gifted performer seemed to be especially modest and self-effacing. “When they called my name, I had this feeling that I could hear half of America going, ‘Oh no! Oh come on, why her? Again!’” Commenting on her last Academy Award victory, “I was a kid when I won this, like, 30 years ago. Two of the [current] nominees were not even conceived,” Streep explained. Despite being an industry veteran, the Academy Awards still have a special meaning to this legendary star. “I thought I was so old and jaded, but they call your name and you just go into a sort of white light,” Streep said later. August: Osage County and Into the Woods The following year, Streep starred in the volatile family drama August: Osage County, earning yet another Oscar nomination, and 2014 saw the actor taking the lead in the dystopic sci-fi film The Giver. Later that year, Streep was also featured as a witch in the screen adaptation of the Stephen Sondheim musical Into the Woods, for which she earned additional Golden Globe and Oscar nods. Suffragette In 2015, Streep starred opposite her real-life daughter Mamie Gummer in the Jonathan Demme and Diablo Cody film Ricki and the Flash, playing an aging rock star who returns home to reconcile with her family. Later that year, she portrayed real-world British voting activist Emmeline Pankhurst in Suffragette. Florence Foster Jenkins and The Post In 2016, the actor received a Golden Globe nomination for her portrayal of 1940s New York heiress Florence Foster Jenkins in the film by the same name. That performance garnered Streep a record 20th Academy Award nomination. Also in 2016, Streep received a Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievement at the Golden Globes. The next year, Streep took on the role of The Washington Post’s first female publisher, Katharine Graham, in Steven Spielberg’s The Post, a movie about the paper’s attempts to publish the Pentagon Papers during the Vietnam War. The film paired Streep and Tom Hanks together on the big screen for the first time, leading to Golden Globe nominations for both of them and another Oscar nod for Streep. That role also earned Streep the opportunity to speak at the Committee to Protect Journalists’ International Press Freedom Awards in November. During the event, Streep recalled two incidents in her life involving physical violence—one of which involved chasing off a mugger with Cher—and thanked women reporters for helping to bring forth the recent influx of stories from victims of sexual harassment. “Thank you, you intrepid, underpaid, over-extended, trolled, and un-extolled, young and old, battered and bold, bought and sold, hyper-alert crack-caffeine fiends,” she said. “You’re ambitious, contrarian, fiery, dogged, and determined bulls–t detectives… And I, on behalf of a grateful nation, thank you.” Big Little Lies In January 2018, it was announced that Streep would join Season 2 of the already star-studded TV series Big Little Lies. The decorated actor was tapped to play Mary Louise Wright, mother of Alexander Skarsgard’s Perry Wright, who shows up to town looking for answers in the wake of her son’s death. Streep made her Season 2 debut with the rest of the Big Little Lies cast in June 2019. She earned an Emmy nod for her performance. The Laundromat and Little Women Following her detour to cable TV, Streep returned to the big screen with Steven Soderbergh’s The Laundromat (2019), a comedy-drama based on Jake Bernstein’s reporting of the secretive financial transactions and offshore tax havens of celebrities and world leaders that were revealed in the Panama Papers leak of 2016. Later that year, she played Aunt March in Greta Gerwig’s Oscar-nominated adaptation of Little Women. Only Murders in the Building In 2023, Streep joined the cast of Hulu’s comedy-drama series Only Murders in the Building for its third season by portraying aspiring actor Loretta Durkin. Having seen the earlier seasons, Streep reached out to Steve Martin, one of the show’s stars and creators, to inquire about a role. Incidentally, co-creator John Hoffman already had Streep in mind for the part of Loretta. Fate was sealed. Streep’s performance earned her praise from critics and fans, as well as an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series. In 2024, Streep returned for the show’s fourth season. Harvey Weinstein Controversy In December 2017, Streep came under fire from actor Rose McGowan, who accused the Oscar winner of being complicit in the cover-up of producer Harvey Weinstein’s sexually abusive behavior. Additionally, McGowan derided the planned “silent protest” in which Streep and other prominent actors would wear all black to the upcoming Golden Globes in January 2018. Streep responded with a statement in which she insisted she had no idea of Weinstein’s behavior. “Not every actor, actress, and director who made films that H.W. distributed knew he abused women, or that he raped Rose in the ’90s, other women before and others after, until they told us,” she said. “I am truly sorry she sees me as an adversary, because we are both, together with all the women in our business, standing in defiance of the same implacable foe: a status quo that wants so badly to return to the bad old days, the old ways where women were used, abused and refused entry into the decision-making, top levels of the industry.” Children and Estranged Husband Don Gummer Streep married sculptor Don Gummer in September 1978 after just six months of dating. The actor and her husband have four children together: a son named Henry and three daughters, Mamie, Grace, and Louisa. All three of her daughters are actors, while her son is both an actor and singer-songwriter. In October 2023, Streep confirmed she and Gummer have been separated for some time, having ended the romantic nature of their relationship in 2017. “While they will always care for each other, they have chosen lives apart,” a representative for the actor shared with People. The pair hasn’t yet filed for divorce. Quotes The Biography.com staff is a team of people-obsessed and news-hungry editors with decades of collective experience. We have worked as daily newspaper reporters, major national magazine editors, and as editors-in-chief of regional media publications. Among our ranks are book authors and award-winning journalists. Our staff also works with freelance writers, researchers, and other contributors to produce the smart, compelling profiles and articles you see on our site. To meet the team, visit our About Us page: https://www.biography.com/about/a43602329/about-us Catherine Caruso joined the Biography.com staff in August 2024, having previously worked as a freelance journalist for several years. She is a graduate of Syracuse University, where she studied English literature. When she’s not working on a new story, you can find her reading, hitting the gym, or watching too much TV. Watch Next Academy Awards Dolly Parton Cynthia Erivo Paul Mescal Lady Gaga Daniel Day-Lewis Kris Kristofferson Brad Pitt Maggie Smith George Clooney Jodie Foster James Earl Jones Helped Schwarzenegger Be a Star A List of All 21 EGOT Winners A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. Site contains certain content that is owned A&E Television Networks, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Biography and associated logos are trademarks of A+E Networks®protected in the US and other countries around the globe.
==== END ENTRY ====

